{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22\par
 \par
Data Structure placement model papers\par
06-17-2014 05:37 AM \par
\par
Data Structure placement model papers\par
\par
\par
1. If h is any hashing function and is used to hash n keys in to a table of size m, where n<=m, the expected number of collisions involving a particular key x is :\par
\par
a. less than 1.\par
b. less than n.\par
c. less than m. \par
d. less than n/2.\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. less than 1.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
2. The time required to delete a node x from a doubly linked list having n nodes is\par
\par
a. O (n) \par
b. O (log n)\par
c. O (1) \par
d. O (n log n)\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. O (1)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
3. Which of the following sorting methods would be most suitable for sorting a list which is almost sorted\par
\par
a. Bubble Sort \par
b. Insertion Sort\par
c. Selection Sort \par
d. Quick Sort\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. Bubble Sort\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
4. A graph with n vertices will definitely have a parallel edge or self loop if the total number of edges are\par
\par
a. greater than n\endash 1 \par
b. less than n(n\endash 1)\par
c. greater than n(n\endash 1)/2 \par
d. less than n2/2\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. greater than n\endash 1\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
5. An ADT is defined to be a mathematical model of a user-defined type along with the collection of all ____________ operations on that model.\par
\par
a. Cardinality \par
b. Assignment\par
c. Primitive \par
d. Structured\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. Primitive\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
6. Which of the following sorting algorithm is stable\par
\par
a. insertion sort. \par
b. bubble sort.\par
c. quick sort. \par
d. heap sort.\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. heap sort.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
7. Which of the following is not the required condition for binary search algorithm?\par
\par
a. The list must be sorted\par
b. there should be the direct access to the middle element in any sublist\par
c. There must be mechanism to delete and/or insert elements in list\par
d. none of above\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. There must be mechanism to delete and/or insert elements in list\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
8. When new data are to be inserted into a data structure, but there is no available space; this situation is usually called\par
\par
a. underflow\par
b. overflow\par
c. houseful\par
d. saturated\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: b. overflow\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
9. Which of the following is two way list?\par
\par
a. grounded header list\par
b. circular header list\par
c. linked list with header and trailer nodes\par
d. none of above\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. none of above\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
10. The complexity of the average case of an algorithm is \par
\par
a. Much more complicated to analyze than that of worst case\par
b. Much more simpler to analyze than that of worst case\par
c. Sometimes more complicated and some other times simpler than that of worst case \par
d. None or above\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. Much more complicated to analyze than that of worst case\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
11. Which of the following is not a limitation of binary search algorithm?\par
\par
a. must use a sorted array\par
b. requirement of sorted array is expensive when a lot of insertion and deletions are needed\par
c. there must be a mechanism to access middle element directly\par
d. binary search algorithm is not efficient when the data elements are more than 1000.\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. binary search algorithm is not efficient when the data elements are more than 1000.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
12. B Trees are generally\par
\par
a. very deep and narrow \par
b. very wide and shallow\par
c. very deep and very wide \par
d. cannot say\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. cannot say\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
13. A binary tree in which if all its levels except possibly the last, have the maximum number of nodes and all the nodes at the last level appear as far left as possible, is known as\par
\par
a. full binary tree. \par
b. AVL tree.\par
c. threaded tree. \par
d. complete binary tree.\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. full binary tree.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
14. One can convert a binary tree into its mirror image by traversing it in\par
\par
a. inorder \par
b. preorder\par
c. postorder \par
d. any order\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. postorder\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
15. The number of leaf nodes in a complete binary tree of depth d is\par
\par
a. 2d \par
b. 2d\endash 1+1\par
c. 2d+1+1 \par
d. 2d+1\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. 2d\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
16. A B-tree of minimum degree t can maximum _____ pointers in a node.\par
\par
a. t\endash 1 \par
b. 2t\endash 1\par
c. 2t \par
d. t\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. t\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
17. One of the major drawback of B-Tree is the difficulty of traversing the keys sequentially.\par
\par
a. True \par
b. False\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. True\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
18. The best average behavior is shown by\par
\par
a. Quick Sort\par
b. Merge Sort\par
c. Insertion Sort \par
d. Heap Sort\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. Quick Sort\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
19. The extra key inserted at the end of the array is called a,\par
\par
a. End key. \par
b. Stop key.\par
c. Sentinel. \par
d. Transposition.\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. Sentinel.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
20. The elements of an array are stored successively in memory cells because\par
\par
a. by this way computer can keep track only the address of the first element and the addresses of other elements can be calculated\par
b. the architecture of computer memory does not allow arrays to store other than serially\par
c. both of above\par
d. none of above\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: a. by this way computer can keep track only the address of the first element and the addresses of other elements can be calculated\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
21. You have to sort a list L consisting of a sorted list followed by a few \ldblquote random\rdblquote  elements. Which of the following sorting methods would be especially suitable for such a task?\par
\par
a. Bubble sort \par
b. Selection sort\par
c. Quick sort \par
d. Insertion sort\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. Insertion sort\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
22. A full binary tree with 2n+1 nodes contain\par
\par
a. n leaf nodes \par
b. n non-leaf nodes\par
c. n-1 leaf nodes \par
d. n-1 non-leaf nodes\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: b. n non-leaf nodes\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
23. A full binary tree with n leaves contains\par
\par
a. n nodes. \par
b. log n 2 nodes.\par
c. 2n \endash 1 nodes. \par
d. n 2 nodes.\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. 2n \endash 1 nodes.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
24. A graph with n vertices will definitely have a parallel edge or self loop of the total number of edges are\par
\par
a. more than n \par
b. more than n+1\par
c. more than (n+1)/2 \par
d. more than n(n-1)/2\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. more than n(n-1)/2\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
25. The quick sort algorithm exploit _________ design technique\par
\par
a. Greedy \par
b. Dynamic programming\par
c. Divide and Conquer \par
d. Backtracking\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: c. Divide and Conquer\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
26. The total number of companions required to merge 4 sorted files containing 15, 3, 9 and 8 records into a single sorted file is\par
\par
a. 66 \par
b. 39\par
c. 15 \par
d. 33\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. 33\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
27. An adjacency matrix representation of a graph cannot contain information of :\par
\par
a. nodes \par
b. edges\par
c. direction of edges \par
d. parallel edges\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: d. parallel edges\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
28. When inorder traversing a tree resulted E A C K F H D B G; the preorder traversal would return\par
\par
a. FAEKCDBHG\par
b. FAEKCDHGB\par
c. EAFKHDCBG\par
d. FEAKDCHBG\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: b. FAEKCDHGB\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
29. The in order traversal of tree will yield a sorted listing of elements of tree in\par
\par
a. Binary trees\par
b. Binary search trees\par
c. Heaps\par
d. None of above\par
View Answer / Hide Answer\par
\par
ANSWER: b. Binary search trees\par
\par
\par
}
 